The success of innovative management in the state sphere and business is largely determined by spiritual, industrial and economic, social-political and governmental conditions. These conditions are developed by the corresponding spheres of life activity of society, each of which performs its own specific function. All spheres of life activity form a kind of integrity, a single organism. They constantly interact with each other and with the external environment, forming and most rational combining mechanisms of innovation management in the state sphere and business. The development of innovation management in the state sphere and business is objective nature, since these areas, interacting with each other and the environment, cannot do without it in solving modern problems of society.
The main function of the spiritual sphere is to preserve, enrich, and reproduce the basic values of the peoplehood arising from their millennial culture and use them in all spheres of human life activity: in personal life, family, industrial and economic, social-political, governmental, etc.
The spiritual sphere performs a function that mobilizes the peoplehood to fulfill their purpose, unites them to achieve true development goal focuses and consolidate the space of the state into an integral power based on common values.
The spiritual sphere, along with other institutions, has a significant impact on the formation of public consciousness. Social consciousness is an integral spiritual phenomenon that has a certain internal structure, including various levels and forms of consciousness.
Social consciousness, as an independent entity, has an active reverse influence on social existence and the entire social life. It is one of the necessary factors and conditions for solving the problems facing society. The power of its impact depends on the completeness and accuracy of the reflection in the public consciousness of the real laws and needs of social development, on the specific conditions and objective possibilities of changing social existence, on the connection of consciousness with practical activity.
The active impact of the spiritual sphere and in particular forms of consciousness on economic development is clearly reflected in the classic work of M. Weber "The Protestant Ethics and the Spirit of Capitalism" (1904-1905), which substantiates the idea that European capitalism owes its origin to the Protestant religious and ethical complex, which provided the education of such personality traits as diligence, thrift, honesty, and prudence.
The work notes that Protestants achieved better results (in comparison with Catholics) in the business and financial spheres (Protestants dominated US business until the 1960s). M. Weber highlights the features of Protestantism that form an active, profit-oriented financial thinking: pronounced individualism, prohibition of wasting time, the duty of intensive work, reliance on the middle class, saving and increasing funds as a vital duty. The individual must make every effort to fulfill his daily, including professional, duties, and in this regard, earning money within the framework established by law, as well as activities focused on profit, is the result and expression of his virtue and skill in fulfilling his vocation (according to Benjamin Franklin — "time is money").
The active impact of forms of social consciousness (in its national context) on economic development can be traced in other regions of the world. In this respect, the example of Japan (diametrically opposed to the protestant version) is indicative.
The Japanese management system is based on a group-oriented model of human relations. Here, an individual employee or employee must subordinate their interests to the interests of the group, which requires loyalty from its members, and rewards them for this loyalty. If, for example, American culture encourages the spirit of competition and individualism, the Japanese model of culture does not allow competition within a group, competition occurs between groups. For the Japanese, agreement within the group comes first, so they spend a lot of time and effort searching for and reaching an intra-group consensus. Here, success is awarded not to an individual employee, but to the group as a whole. The principle is: one for all, all for one.
In Japan, large companies in the key sectors of the economy are considered as organizations that the state gives the opportunity to conduct business and even make a profit, but which have obligations to society and the state. They exist in the name of those who work and are served by these companies, and not to serve the private interests of bankers and shareholders. However, individuals are viewed negatively here, as an expression of selfish aspirations as opposed to a higher desire to satisfy national interests.
Therefore, despite the fact that the stock market is quite well developed in Japan, its liquidity is low, and existing traditions and values play a more significant role than changes in the value of shares and their movement between possible owners. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that industry in Japan has a higher status than trade, since industrial production is aimed at strengthening science and improving well-being, while trade primarily solves the problems of personal enrichment. Most of the leaders of Japanese industry come from samurai backgrounds.
Clearly, Russia, in the new phase of the world cycle, will also have to turn to its own spiritual tradition, bequeathed by Orthodoxy which by many criteria is much closer to the great spiritual traditions of the East than to the West.
However, it should be remembered that in this case we are talking primarily about the spiritual traditions of Russia, and not the mentality generated by its geopolitical identity. From the very beginning, the formation of our country went wide, it was attracted by vast lands, expeditions to far-away, free movement ("where the wind will bring"). And it is not surprising that in the country, in its power structures, an extensive type of thinking developed, such a worldview developed that Russia is infinite, its resources are inexhaustible, and its possibilities are unlimited.
The transition from the extensive type of thinking to the intensive, and at present innovation is a precondition for the implementation of a new type of development with its geopolitically thoughtful perception, i.e., consciousness, the earth, including Russian, are not infinite, and it must be protected in the name of future.
The exceptional significance of the spiritual factor in the development of economic systems is now recognized not only by the authorities, but also to an increasing extent by business structures.
According to the researchers, "gradually, the leaders of advanced TNC's began to understand that innovations are only the visible tip of the iceberg of socio-cultural institutions and to ensure their successful production, it is necessary to learn how to transfer large institutional modules to "host" countries.
The time has come for a more adequate assessment of the contribution of a common culture and ideology to the practical economic successes of States and individual companies. On closer examination, it turns out that outwardly the most international natural sciences, engineering, and business are linked by thousands of threads to national culture, traditions, and religion.
Beyond doubt, the specific moral and ethical principles, historical national mentality, and not just the low price of labor are an essential benchmark (factor) outsourcing deals between Western corporations and companies from China and Indochina, not developing countries in Latin America and Africa, where the standard of living of the population much lower.
A powerful layer of thousands of years of culture, spiritual values of the population of Southeast Asia allow them to quickly master modern technologies and actually monopolize many product (commodity) niches of the world market (for example, shoes, clothing, children's toys) or take a strong position in them (household appliances, electronics, etc.). The same layer of historical culture and spirituality allowed India to reach the forefront in the world in the field of software.
This means that the targeting of outsourcing in the modern world economy is directly dependent not only on the price of labor, but also on the professional level of performers, due not only and not so much to the currently acquired knowledge and skills, but also the ability to perceive them, prepared by the many thousands of years of spiritual tradition of these countries.
Thus, the spiritual sphere, which is an organic part of the integrity of the life activity of society, is inextricably linked with other components of this integrity and has a significant impact on their development.
Taking into account all the above, we note once again that innovation management should be developed on the basis of the spiritual values of the people, contributing to their preservation and development.