In the system of rules for the implementation of innovation solutions, a special place is occupied by monitoring the progress of their implementation and responsibility for the results. The ability to control needs no less art than the ability to make solutions.
However, to control and to require realizing solutions is possible not before in front of the staff will be clearly defined tasks, given a full explanation of their nature and sequence, the place each employee in this process. The main task of monitoring is to identify deviations from the strategy or plan and take measures to eliminate them.
In a successfully functioning organization, operational control (in real time) is conducted over the progress of the execution of decisions, possible errors are prevented, assistance is provided in the form of additional instruction, recommendations of other approaches to the execution of certain procedures, etc. There is constantly monitoring of the status of the tasks being solved, search for opportunities for appropriate adjustment of the solution by means of:
- identification of significant changes in the system of connections of solution components;
- developing of the procedures required to detect these changes;
- establishing and evaluating the permissible limits of modification of the current solution, up to determining (if absolutely necessary) a new course of actions.
In the recent past, and in some organizations to this day, many serious shortcomings are allowed in the work on solutions: tasks are not reasoned, the means of their implementation are not always provided, there is uncertainty in the timing of execution, sometimes responsible persons are not specified.
In principle, organizations should not have zones that are free of control. However, the greatest attention should be paid to the zones and managers that most often need control. These can be, for example, managers who are afraid of uncertainty and risk, who try to avoid ambiguous situations, who abuse the creation of various structures that limit the space of freedom of action and the ability of performers to quickly respond to a changing situation. Often, decision-makers are in a hurry or, on the contrary, slow. In the first case, they do not wait for sufficient information to justify the solution, and in the second-they are late with the decision, achieving have comprehensive information. In both cases, losses in the quality of solutions and their results are inevitable.
It happens that decisions are not brought to all the intended performers, and if they are brought, it is late. At one time, this was the norm and even believed that if a solution is really important, it should be repeated two or three times.
It should be remembered that managers who control execution should be as familiar with the technology of making innovation solutions as the managers who make them.
A manager who penetrates the methodology and methodology of development and decision-making has more opportunities to increase the competitiveness of the organization (by introducing innovation management technologies).
