Nanotechnologies are a modern tool for creating artifacts that act as special objects of innovation management. it is very important that the artifacts should be national, and not borrowed from outside. The system of innovation management is easily built under national artifacts, providing a purposeful impact on their formation and development in the interests of society.
The concept of "nano" comes from the Greek "nanos", which means "dwarf " and speaks for itself. Nanotechnology is a new direction in innovation. Until the 1980s, there was no explicit concept of "nanotechnology". It was during these years that the so-called tunnel effect was discovered, on the basis of which scanning probe microscopes were created, which allowed scientists to work with separate atoms and molecules.
Nanotechnologies allow us to create a qualitatively new state of matter, new materials with specified properties. To do this, based on the needs, it is determined what properties are needed, and then, using the constructing of separate atoms and molecules, certain structures of biological, material-material, biocompatible, composite or other nature are created that meet the specified properties.
The concept of "nanotechnology" was introduced in 1974 by the Japanese Norio Taniguchi to describe the process of building new things from separate atoms, ahead of the possibility of implementing this technology by 20 years. This possibility appeared only at the turn of the new century, when powerful microscopes and unique "fingers" were created, allowing you to operate separate molecules and atoms.
Nanotechnology is the manipulation of objects one billionth of a meter in size (nanometer, the size of an atom). Unlike previous electronic devices, which allowed only to observe large objects of the nanoworld, the latest microscopes make it possible to build new molecules with new properties in the nanoworld from atoms. These microscopes are sometimes referred to as nanoprobes because they "feel" rather than see. In such scanning microscopes, observation and manipulation are one (like the fingers on the hand of a blind person).
In 1991, carbon nanotubes were created in Japan, the diameter of which is several thousandths of the diameter of a human hair, and the length is about 100 nanometers. These nanotubes became the first real nanomaterial, on the basis of which various things are now being built, offered on the market of new products.
Nanotechnologies promise mankind a controlled construction of new matter. Considering separate atoms as the main building elements, nanotechnologists are trying to develop practical ways of constructing new materials with specified characteristics from atoms (using mechanical nano-assembly), super — dense information carriers in which information will be encoded at the molecular level, and then create ultra-small mechanisms - nanomachines.
Nanotechnologies have broad prospects for application in a wide variety of fields of science and industry, including the production of new types of materials, telecommunications systems, energy sources and treatment methods.