Creating conditions for the formation of breakthrough technologies is a special type of activity of the state and business, focused on meeting the needs of the real sector of the economy. Large-scale and effective development of breakthrough technologies is possible if this task is the basis of the country's state policy, which provides large-scale support to all participants in this process. Without strong state influence, it is impossible to dynamically create and implement the latest achievements of science and technology on a national scale.
First of all, it is necessary to create a set of conditions in which culture, knowledge and high technologies will become the basis for the development of society, the formation of energetic and competent people who can implement non-standard solutions. the state, business, and education are called upon to develop mutually beneficial policies in this area of activity.
An important function of the state is to regulate the development of breakthrough technologies at all stages: from the formation of demand to its satisfaction. Through its institutions, it should monitor emerging trends in science, which are identified as breakthrough technologies based on the totality of their initial properties, and create special conditions for their development.
These special conditions include:
- concentration of knowledge, financial, material and other resources in breakthrough directions;
- creation and using of special technologies for the selection and training of scientists and specialists capable of creating breakthrough technologies;
- effective motivation of personnel in the field of science and practice of breakthrough technologies, which differs favorably from the motivations and incentives of western competitors working in this field, and significantly exceeds them.
Of particular importance for the development and testing of breakthrough technologies is a network of state research centers equipped with modern equipment and provided with stable state funding. An important condition is also the presence of industrial demand for innovations. Developed industry sets the tone for meeting the demand for innovative products produced on the basis of breakthrough technologies.
Favorable tax conditions are also needed to finance the emerging competitive industry of breakthrough technologies.
First of all, it is necessary to develop the domestic scientific and technical base for breakthrough technologies that provide a breakthrough in various spheres of human activity.
The combination of various favorable conditions makes it possible to activate the national innovation system (by more precise adjustment of its constituent elements) for the creation and implementation of breakthrough technologies that will be in demand in the domestic and foreign markets.
