Every developing organization has an innovative potential that expresses the measure and state of its readiness to independently generate and implement "know-how", technologies, products, or effectively use "another's" inventions. The potential of each organization should be sufficient to achieve the set innovation goal, for example, to implement a specific project (program of innovative strategic changes). Innovation potential can consist not only of major developments, but even of small changes in the product and its production technology that increase labor productivity, product quality, and improve its design.
The state, quality and volume of innovation potential largely determines the choice of an innovative strategy for the development of an organization and the system of factors and conditions accompanying the innovation process.
It is necessary to distinguish between two main components of the process of innovative development — innovative projects and innovative potential. These components should be considered systematically. Federal and regional targeted scientific and technical, innovative programs and projects are mostly a set of activities that are mutually linked in terms of content, timing, resources, location, and actions aimed at achieving a systematic scientific and innovative goal. Programs and projects make it possible to actively attract private investment and purposefully coordinate the work of many organizations, corporations, industries, and regions to solve the most important tasks in ensuring innovative economic growth and forming a macro-technological system.
The content of an organization's innovation potential is determined by the elements that make up its production and management system (fig. 1).

Fig. 1. The overall potential of the organization (its main components)

The core of the organization's overall capacity is the actually potential for innovation, present their piece in all its units (human, organizational, technological and financial-economic), which is commensurate with capabilities.
The innovative potential of enterprises and scientific and technical organizations can be measured by the selected parameters. There may be several dozen such parameters. This allows the organization's management to get a reliable idea of the state of innovation potential for solving specific innovative tasks. The real possibilities of solving such problems are largely determined by the capacity of the organization's own innovation infrastructure.
As parameters of the innovation potential, indicators of the state of equipment, the availability of a reserve of scientific and technical developments of an innovative type, the possibility of producing a pilot batch and organizing mass production are used. Special attention is paid to studying and evaluating external factors that affect the organization's innovation activity and, above all, the demand for its products in the market. As for internal factors, they include those that characterize the level of training and qualifications of the organization's personnel in certain areas of its activities.
It is necessary to determine the impact of each of the main factors, since without proper consideration, for example, the state of equipment and the qualifications of the organization's personnel, the possibilities of its innovation activities are significantly limited. Filling each of the main factors with specific content allows us to develop models of organizational, technological and infrastructure support for the innovative potential of organizations.
