The results of the innovation process are expressed in certain indicators that reflect the mission of the organization, its goals and planned calculations (financial, technical and technological, economic, quantitative, qualitative (non-material), etc.). However, there is a need for an indicator that can be used as a universal indicator that can provide an overall assessment of innovation. In our opinion, this function can be performed by an indicator that characterizes the competitive advantage of an innovative organization.
Competitive advantages are achieved on the basis of a strategy of aggressive market actions aimed at superiority in innovation activity over their competitors. The guarantee of success can be a purposeful intensification of scientific and research works, which allows innovative organizations to put forward new product concepts, apply the latest flexible technologies, quickly remove outdated products from the market, ensure high rates of restructuring of production and sales lines, quickly enter new markets, and focus on solving the problems of selected consumer groups.
Let's get acquainted with the main types of competitive advantages, as well as with the conditions that create them.
A competitive advantage can become the product itself and even its single characteristics that are attractive to the consumer. Very often, this characteristic is the price of the product, when the consumer purchases it cheaper than other products that have similar consumer properties. Under this strategy, the focus of the organization (during development and production of the product) is to achieve benefits in costs, in particular due to cheaper production and marketing of products, the synergistic effect (occurring in the manufacture of various products), economies of scale (volume) - production (when costs are reduced per unit of production), optimization of intra-organizational links, ordering (integration) distribution systems and supply systems.
Competitive advantages can be achieved through a strategy focused on a specific (specific) segment by setting low prices or by other methods that involve tighter control over the movement of various groups of products designed to meet specific needs (for example, in services). The product or technology of its implementation may be given some consumer properties that are evaluated as improving quality, in other cases-increasing the reliability of the product in operation. This is often achieved by setting up sales of products with related services, etc.
Competitive advantages are also gained by the strategy of introducing their products and developing new markets at the same time. This strategy is quite risky, requiring a masterly possession of marketing techniques, but at the same time it promises to master high positions in the competition if successful.
The factors of an organization's competitiveness are changeable and do not allow it to retain competitive advantages for a long time, which are associated with the implementation of ever-increasing changes in innovative strategies, products and technologies. The best way to solve the problem of creating and retaining competitive advantages is through the qualified interaction of three subjects of the market environment:
- an innovative organization that develops and introduces products (technology) to the market that enjoy an acceptable level of demand;
- a buyer who has the opportunity to choose, as well as the means and desire to purchase the proposed innovation;
- a competitor who is ready to offer the customer a product that basically meets a particular need, as the product of the first organization.
The buyer will have to make a choice, which may not be easy. After all, a competitive advantage is nothing more than the value inherent in an innovative product for the buyer. Meanwhile, in a situation of choice, consumers ' understanding of the value of a product may differ significantly.
