Small innovative organizations play a very important role in the mastering of innovations, and in many cases their performance is much higher than that of large organizations. This apparent paradox is explained by the features and advantages of small organizations in the process of performing scientific researches and experimental-design developments. Small businesses are usually characterized by a cohesive and proactive staff with a developed entrepreneurial spirit, always ready to take justified risks. At the same time, small organizations are characterized by a quick response to internal problems and high adaptability to the changing economic environment of a competitive market.
The operating conditions of a small business allow it to take responsibility for the development and development of fundamentally new products and technologies with insufficient prospects. Usually, large enterprises are wary of doing them, if only for the reason that they may not justify large investments in the reconstruction of production.
Many innovative formations owe their appearance to small and medium-sized businesses. Statistics provide clear evidence that, in general small organizations produce 2 times more novelties per person than large ones.
High-tech small and medium-sized businesses focused on the development and production of innovative science-intensive products are financially supported (to an increasing extent) by venture capital-capital that is necessary and inaccessible in the initial period of enterprise creation. Funds invested in new high-tech productions for the medium and long term cannot be returned to investors, if for some reason they wish it, until the end of the innovation life cycle. Venture financing is essentially a long-term loan issued to an innovative organization on debt (without providing guarantees). The increased risk of the investor is compensated by a higher percentage (in comparison with the one issued in banks) and the probability of obtaining ultra-high profits in the future.
The mutual interest of the founders of a venture organization and its investors is to ensure the effective and dynamic development of a high-risk innovative business that can become highly profitable, and the opportunity in the future to become participants in the prestigious process of innovation creators with far-reaching advantages.
Strengthening the position of small and medium-sized businesses, getting rid of any bureaucracy, and ensuring sustainable and stable development require improving the framework conditions for business activity. Simplifying the regulation of small and medium-sized enterprises will lead to lower tax rates and administrative barriers.
Of particular importance is the provision of assistance to employees of small and medium-sized businesses in improving their skills, as well as consulting. There is a significant need to develop the institutional infrastructure of this business, including improving the personnel services of regional authorities, forming centers for the establishment and supporting of small and medium-sized businesses, etc.
Improving the financing of small and medium-sized businesses is still an urgent problem. It requires the mobilization of significant refinancing funds, the opening of credit lines, and the vigorous and fair use of financing programs, including those created by international financial institutions. So far, there are no conditions for active development of innovative business in the country. According to experts, the average utilization of even existing industrial production capacities does not exceed 40-50 %.
The innovation potential of small and medium-sized businesses is also not in demand. But it creates the vast majority of the gross national product in all developed countries and is the main source of increasing jobs and employment, including intellectual personnel. Small and medium-sized businesses serve as the basis for the birth of the middle class, which is the guarantor of the stability of society.