Incubators, which are common structures of small innovative businesses, including science-intensive ones, have a significant contribution to the development of innovation activities. Incubators are one of the mandatory structural divisions of modern technology parks.
Starting an own business entrepreneur has to solve a lot of organizational, legal, economic and purely technical issues: how to conduct marketing research, register your company, and create a business plan to promote new products or services on the market. Where can he find employees with the necessary qualifications, office space, and interested commercial partners? And most importantly, how to get highly qualified advice and informative assistance on all aspects of business. Before applying for support from venture funds or any other sources of financial resources, the future entrepreneur must justify the viability of the proposed project.
Almost all the problems of justifying the project of a business organization and then the problems of its successful operation are solved by the incubator. The innovation incubator is the basis of the technology park. It commercializes the results of scientific researches and experimental-design works, which are carried out on preferential terms in small innovative firms. Technology parks are located in technical and implementation zones, on specially selected territories, where all conditions for the development of innovative activities are created.
The most general idea of the functions of technical and implementation zones and the main results of their activities is given in table 1 (it is largely conditional, the information contained in it needs serious correction).

Table 1. technical-implementation zones

The structure of the technology park is based on a modular principle, the primary element of which is a small formation - an innovation incubator-company. By the way, the technology park is translated as an incubator of technologies. Technology parks consist of a set of small firms-centers that specialize in providing certain innovative services, and are, in turn, part of the technology polis. The research and implementation zone consists of a set of technology polises, each of which is represented by a number of technology parks that have a certain number of innovation incubators. This zone must necessarily have a common extensive infrastructure that supports their innovation and production activities.
The general target functions of technology polises are the formation of innovative infrastructure and increase of innovative activity, structural restructuring of industry, creation of new jobs, development of mechanisms for innovation, increase of innovative capability and increase of innovation potential and science-intensive of industry, improvement of state innovation policy.
In this system, production capacities concentrated in small innovative firms can significantly increase the effectiveness of innovation activities by reducing financial costs and time spent by a novice entrepreneur, paying a lower amount for renting work space and necessary equipment, and joint using secretarial, computer and other services.
At the beginning of the activity, entrepreneurs are assisted in the field of management by the incubator managers. They get access to a network of professional lawyers, accountants, marketing specialists, and patent specialists who are able and willing to provide qualified assistance to aspiring entrepreneurs. With comprehensive support, start-up entrepreneurs actively master progressive technologies and organizational forms of management, rely on the experience of professional marketers in a competitive market and, as a result, ensure the competitiveness of their products.
Fees for services rendered, including rent of premises, use of equipment owned by the incubator, and maintenance, are quite moderate due to the participation of the state, local authorities, interested large industrial associations, universities, and other educational institutions in financing and other forms of support for the incubator's activities. These circumstances, as well as wide opportunities for combining the latest scientific ideas and developments with production, create conditions for small businesses to actively develop their own scientific and practical innovative developments in cooperation with all Federal, regional and local government bodies interested in scientific and technical development, as well as large industrial corporations, universities, and even individuals.
The interest of large industrial associations in the fate of innovative firms is motivated by the fact that the incubator serves as an excellent source of information about new promising ideas or practical developments that fit into an innovative strategy for long-term development. This allows you to gain time in the early stages of mastering major innovations, which gives them a strategic advantage over competitors, and in addition, also significant savings in financial resources. It is much cheaper to acquire the rights to use a new idea by agreeing with its author or buying a large stake in the company than to start your own research and development in the chosen direction.
The technology park system has a wide range of companies that are "grown" in various ways:
- firms established and owned by the incubator that specialize in technology transfer and scientific-consulting services;
- independent firms that left the incubator;
- belonging to large enterprises and moved to the park from the fields of science, small and medium-sized businesses firms which mastering the results of scientific research or "know-how". 
In all cases, technology parks strive to obtain benefits that are the goal of all participants in innovation business, science and production, operating on a commercial basis. Only joint efforts can bring to the market a lot of original ideas and solutions that arise from inventors, scientists, University teachers and employees who cannot succeed by acting independently. In this case, a labor-intensive and science-intensive business gets a chance to be successfully implemented and become part of the driving forces of the market economy.
