The management of the technology park is a function of state and local authorities. The government develops large-scale programs to support small and medium-sized businesses, provides them with legislative assistance, and motivates the development of innovation technologies in various ways.
A simplified diagram of the technology park structure can be presented as follows (fig. 4).

Fig. 4. Structure of the technology park

Local authorities create conditions conducive to attracting innovator-specialists to work on innovative projects in order to create of small innovative science-intensive firms in their technology parks. The tasks they solve can relate to any aspect of management activity, it is only important that they have an innovative focus.
Technology parks usually create scientific centers that focus on turning knowledge into inventions and technologies, and technology into a commercial product. The founders of scientific centers can be entrepreneurs, financial institutions, industrial associations, universities and other educational institutions, and, of course, regional and local authorities.
The interest shown by local educational institutions in creating incubators and establishing links with specific technology parks is quite understandable and natural. In the process of innovation activity, progressive technologies are transferred from scientific centers to small and medium-sized businesses. Specialists employed in scientific centers work under special programs and publish their own projects in the press. It is important for them to find entrepreneurs for their ideas. The responses of applicants who want to become entrepreneurs are analyzed, after which they are interviewed and an incubation period is set for each applicant.
The search and selection of entrepreneurs for small and medium-sized businesses is a serious problem for technology parks. Extraordinary innovative tasks should be assigned to professionally gifted people who can take responsibility for achieving innovative goals. The creative environment in the organization, its moral and psychological climate, which is favorable for combining the employee's personal interests with the collective ones, is of great importance for the implementation of the staff's innovation potential.
It is recommended to differentiate the approach to innovators based on the role functions of participants in the innovation process.
Managers differ:
- initiating new ideas at all stages, starting from the R & D stage and up to the creation and implementation of innovations;
- providing communication links, accumulating the scientific, technical and market information required for the organization's functioning (through the incorporation of knowledge and its dissemination in the organization);
- creating conditions for the perception and promotion of new ideas and orienting participants in the innovation process to the final result;
- leaders of innovations, including in the field of new forms of personnel labor organization (adequate for innovative activities).
Managers who participate in innovative projects must have a high level of professionalism and qualifications that guarantee the effectiveness of their activities. They are designed to carry out business design, forecast and plan innovation processes, conduct economic analysis, identify all possible risks, and find opportunities to expand the scope of their organization's activities in the commodity markets.
Such activities involve adequate organization of people, their motivation in the results of their work, their understanding of the innovative problems of the organization, its mission, culture and ethics of corporate behavior. Managers themselves should be people of non-standard thinking, proactive and able to generate ideas, sociable, feel the need to work with the team and have the gift of influencing people, stress-resistant and balanced, flexible and adaptable to changes, confident and dedicated, do not avoid risky situations and are ready to take responsibility for decisions.
