Currently, there is a program management method based on programs and projects. Programs are the object of interest of the organization's budget policy: through them, the most important tasks of the country's development are realized.
Federal, presidential, regional, industry-specific, and object-target programs are distinguished by their significance. Federal targeted programs are designed to solve the most acute problems that hinder the development of society.
Scientific and technical, social, economic, investment, defense, and other programs are distinguished by their content. All of them are designed to have an active impact on the progress of the relevant areas of the national economy and to realize national interests. A worthy place among them is occupied by economic programs that are built on an innovative basis to the maximum extent possible. Program management involves the use of adequate methods of targeted impact on the objects developed in the concepts of these programs.
In the practice of innovation organizations, a project management system that is more acceptable to them (in comparison with the program) has become widespread. An innovation project is a plan for solving a problem based on a system of interrelated goals aimed at changing an innovation organization. The components of the goal system are interrelated in terms of resources, deadlines, and performers who solve various research, development, financial, and organizational problems of an innovation project.
The project goal may be to gain a leading position in the industry and create competitive advantages, and success can be achieved in various ways, but primarily through the reconstruction of production units, updating technological equipment, switching to new materials, improving the quality of products, gaining the trust of consumers, investors, founders, suppliers, intermediaries, government and local government.
The success of an innovation project largely depends on how well its main innovative idea is formed and justified, which explains the quality of achieving the goals set.
The formation of an innovation idea provides for the final, general goal of the project, the achievement of its results in terms of volume, timing and size of profit in quantitative terms, using patent and environmental analysis of products and technologies, as well as the volume of investment in the context of their forms and sources. Next, an innovation project is developed directly, which is based on solving tasks to ensure the set end goals, agreed on resources, time and performers. A comparative analysis of the developed project options is carried out, from among which the best one is selected according to the accepted selection criteria.
After that, the project implementation plan comes into effect. Special organizations (project teams) are created that select potential project participants, draw up contract documentation, control the execution of calendar plans and resource expenditure, correct possible deviations, and promptly regulate the project implementation process.
Planning of an innovative project, or rather its life cycle, is completed by submitting the results to the customer and contracts closure. Under all conditions, the main concept of an innovation project remains the concept of its life cycle, which distinguishes a number of consecutive stages in time, which differ by type of innovation activity.