The project implementation process goes through certain phases, divided into stages (fig. 6). The project goes through these phases regardless of the sphere of its industry branch, complexity, and amount of work required for its implementation.

Fig. 6. Schematic diagram of alternating phases of project implementation

The period of time from the moment a project is created to its completion is called its lifecycle. Each phase of the project has its own goals and objectives. A qualified presentation of the content of each phase is important, because its effectiveness and the quality of the project as a whole depend on it.
The project life cycle covers all stages of innovation activity related to the transformation of scientific and technical ideas into a new or improved product or technological process, or into a new approach to social services.
Innovative projects can be classified by:
- nature of the project goals;
- type of need being met;
- type of innovation;
- the level of decisions taken and the stages covered by them;
- time of realization.
Let's look at the content of the project lifecycle phases. At the stage of development of the project concept, its final goals and ways to achieve them are determined. It is intended to develop alternative goals that should take into account economic, social, political and technical factors. An important requirement when defining project goals is the ability to quantify them (terms and amounts of profit). The declaration of intent to design objects sets out the main characteristics of the objects, indicates the place of construction and the restrictions imposed.
This is followed by a pre-feasibility study of the project in order to assess its viability. It is considered sufficient to consider no more than two options developed at the previous stage, and each of them should be evaluated according to the criteria of cost and profit, so that we can see a reasonable advantage one over the other. Here, specific goals are formed and boundary conditions are defined, as well as the project is pre-evaluated in comparison with similar objects. As a result, a decision is made to start work on the project implementation.
The implementation of a project begins with its planning — with the establishment of a structurally defined sequence of stages of work leading to the achievement of a set of goals already set by all stakeholders. A plan that shows who should do what, when, and how, and includes all the necessary decisions, becomes an effective tool for working with project participants. It is the basis for drawing up a detailed schedule of works and an accurate estimate of their cost. After the final project execution plan is sent to all participants, the issues of creating an organization or team to work on the project are resolved.
Then there is the development of technical requirements (selection of operational characteristics of future project objects), as well as the selection and registration of a land plot, geodetic and geotechnical surveys, preparation of technical conditions for the engineering support of the site and obtaining a work permit. At this stage, the group of experts assesses the amount of funds that will be required for the implementation of the project. The reliability of cost estimates depends more on the accuracy of the preliminary project estimate.
At the stage of preliminary designing, the scope of work on working designing is approved and design and development activity begin. At the beginning of this phase, materials are selected to start developing the project, and the feasibility study is adjusted and approved. Based on these corrected and approved information, a new approximate cost estimate is generated, including additional project information received at this time.
This prepares the contract phase of the project. If the continuation of work on the project is approved, then the next moment comes — the transition to the preparation of the so-called qualification requirements, which are the material for preparing the contract and carrying out the working designing. For the same purpose, a preliminary design assignment is prepared.
The selection of potential project performers is made as follows. Usually, several applicant-firms are pre-selected and invited for negotiations. Negotiations are conducted by a group of experts, and each expert evaluates the applicant independently according to the following criteria: architectural and functional advantages of the submitted design developments; cost indicators for future construction; real architectural and engineering capabilities of the firm; reliability of the firm as a partner for previously implemented projects; financial position of the firm.
It is possible to choose a company on a competitive basis, through tenders. This approach is already widespread. However, the tender is often just a screen that hides a preliminary agreement between the right participant and the customer. In this case, the outcome of the tender is pre-prepared and known, and the winning of the desired participant is predetermined.
Based on the results of the bargaining, a contract is drawn up with the selected project organization. The contract includes a schedule and a design assignment. Then proceed to the selection and approval of the final version of the project. Usually, the customer takes 3-4 weeks to do this, which is stipulated in the contract. At this stage, a full feasibility study of the project is being developed and a task for working designing is being drawn up.
Selection and registration of relations with contractors and firms. Simultaneously with the conclusion of a contract with a design firm, similar activities are carried out to attract construction contractors, as well as suppliers of equipment and materials.
The project implementation phase begins, which is usually divided into two sub-phases: detailed working designing and construction deliverings. The construction sub-phase of the project realizing involves the purchase of construction materials, products and structures; hiring of labor; rental of construction equipment; construction, installation and commissioning; delivery and acceptance of finished objects into operation.
The scope of authority of the project manager is provided for in the contract concluded with the customer. The project team is usually part of a specially formed organizational management structure created for the period of project implementation and headed by a manager.
According to the established practice, the top-level manager pays more attention to innovation activity than even financial work.
The project developer has the right to involve various specialized organizations in working on it. It may also include project and program support funds, consulting organizations, innovation centers, patent and licensing firms, and audit organizations. In general, the composition and functions of the project team are determined by the scale, complexity, and other characteristics of the work performed.
The project manager performs his functions until its completion. Since the situation of project development may change, this is reflected in the dynamics of personnel and the operational level of management related to the heads of line divisions and specialists who ensure the performance of current tasks and profit.