As already noted, small businesses play an exceptional role in the development of an innovative economy. Everyone recognizes the importance of benefits for supporting small business structures, primarily commodity production, and promoting their investment and innovation activities. In addition, it is necessary to protect intellectual property, credit support, risk insurance and state orders for entrepreneurs engaged in innovative activities and implementing the latest technologies.
Risk finance funds — venture entrepreneurship, which is characterized by a wide variety and wide choice of sources of risk capital — are playing an increasingly important role in the economy. Usually, everything is determined by the required amount of investment, as well as the stage of development at which the venture capital firm is located. At the same time, both investment loans and direct investments in innovative projects are possible.
Venture risk entrepreneurship, which carries out the process of developing and bringing a scientific idea (technical invention) to the stage of practical use, requires, in addition to financial investments, the formation of demand for the scientific and technical products it produces.
Venture capital is intended for long-term and potentially highly profitable risky investments. Investors, having conducted a thorough analysis of the business plans of innovative projects, invest in them in the expectation that the profit (excess profit) from the sale of products produced on the basis of these projects will allow them to recoup costs and receive income greater than the bank interest on the investment capital. Venture financing is carried out in two main forms: the acquisition of shares of new firms and the provision of loans of various types (with the right to convert into shares). The main financial goal of investors is to make a profit by selling their share of the shares of the financed firm.
The amount of profit or loss depends on the correct choice of the object of financing, as well as on the accuracy of determining the most profitable moment for selling shares. The choice of this moment, as well as venture activity in General, which is characterized by uncertainty of development results, future market parameters and other behavior characteristics, largely depends on the entrepreneur's ability to handle risks, his qualifications and work experience. There is more or less uncertainty in the relationship between the two parties in almost all agreements between venture capitalists and venture entrepreneurs. The expected results of the company's activities in each case should be compared with the size of investment capital, the amount of costs for the development and development of products.
The subjects of the innovation process are organizations that produce marketable scientific products, as well as organizations of various sectors of the economy that use scientific and technical developments for science-intensive products. Financing of innovative products in both variants is carried out on the initiative of entrepreneurs (top managers). Small business organizations have initiated a number of major innovations, especially in electronics and biotechnology.
State assistance to entrepreneurship in the process of formation and development of the venture capital market is mainly expressed in the forms of direct influence and indirect regulation. In the first case, these are loans provided by the state, as well as guarantees of loans to private capital, in the second-measures to create a favorable environment for the development of venture financing (tax incentives; improvement of the organizational and legal mechanism; provision of Advisory services and the creation of appropriate infrastructure).
In all cases, investors act with the understanding that projects that are in the initial (starting) stage of development cannot bring any significant returns. Therefore, venture entrepreneurs consider it necessary (to determine the size of the required investment and the effective use of advanced venture capital) to know the stages of development of the created innovative organization. the process of its creation is considered sequentially in stages that differ in duration and the degree of risk to which the funding is exposed in comparison with the initial investment. And then the real possible value of the investor's venture income is revealed.
Currently, there is a trend of development of risk investment funds both on the part of the state and private entrepreneurs. A Venture Fund and a Russian Venture Company (RVC) have already been established. RVC is an investment fund with a capital of 15 billion rubles. But it does not finance projects, but funds. The fund must have a management company, which is selected by competition, and which must have experience in implementing venture projects.
RVC is expected to create about ten private venture investment funds. To encourage the arrival of private investment, an option scheme is formed to buy out the state's share in the Fund (the right to buy out its share with a margin return of 3% is given annually; this money will be refinanced).