Motivation plays a significant role in the personnel management system of an innovation organization, which creates a favorable background for attracting highly qualified personnel who are inclined to innovation activity. If in the recent past, the only and universal incentive for an employee was the amount of salary they received, then in the modern innovation economy, the situation is different. It can be considered characteristic and symbolic that the personnel of the established innovation organization, whose dominant feature is the understanding of the growing value of intellectual capital, which increases due to new knowledge, have qualitatively different ideas about the meaning of their work and need other indicators of its assessment and motivation.
In today's innovation economy, employees are motivated by a variety of internal and external factors of production development. In addition to the motivators the actual work, define its quantitative and qualitative characteristics, peculiarities and developing level of social environment and market factors impact, such as inflation, tax, customs policy and many others. At the same time, the focus of motivation on solving technical and technological problems and on meeting the needs of its clientele as much as possible is of the utmost importance. If you get carried away with the technical side of the problem, you should not forget that the ultimate goal of the organization is to serve consumers. The better and more fully their interests are met, the more opportunities there are to achieve solutions to the social problems of employees of the organization, to motivate them to high-quality high-performance work.
From the point of view of labor motivation, an important task of human resource management of an organization is to ensure such behavior of employees that allows them to achieve their goals by successfully working in a team.
This type of behavior can be expressed by an employee's commitment to innovation. The organization needs to create the appropriate infrastructure to motivate innovation behavior of employees and direct them to implement innovative goals.
It should be borne in mind that the operating conditions of the organization are constantly changing, which forces us to reconsider the motives. The formation of employees' sense of belonging to the goals of the organization is designed to be based on long-term values that are adequate for innovation activity.
Recognizing the validity of the statement that the simplest and most convincing way to motivate an employee to work with full dedication is a reasonable system of his remuneration, one should think about the question, and what are its criteria?
The effectiveness of each employee's activity depends on his ability to perform certain functions and the motivation necessary for this. Abilities assume that an employee has the necessary professional knowledge and innovative thinking to perform their functions, the ability to act in conditions of risk and uncertainty on the basis of a common culture and shared values.
However, the ability to perform professional duties is not enough to achieve the goals of an innovation organization. no matter how qualified an employee is, the success of his activities will ultimately depend on the motivation for work (his desire to work). A high result will be achievable only with a combination of professionalism and strong work motivation.