In the course of globalization, when various national ethno-cultures are joined by objective necessity and economic entities cooperate in the form of large transnational corporations, there is a serious practical problem of their interaction, within the framework of values recognized by all participants. in recent years, interest in the differences of national cultures and the study of their impact on the formation and functioning of the global energy and economic space has increased dramatically and continues to increase.
Managers of joint ventures often experience difficulties not of a functional, but of a value nature. Making common decisions is difficult due to the fact that managers with different values perceive situations differently and each party behaves in accordance with its perception of the world around it.
The design strategies of organizations themselves are influenced by the cultures within which projects are developed (the forms of the latter are diverse and numerous). American, British, Japanese and Chinese organizations have their own ways of forming strategies based on the characteristics of national cultures and their role in the implementation of the intended goals.
Due to the acceleration of the process of erasing information, financial, and cultural boundaries (which previously seriously divided states and different peoples), the migration of people is increasing, which eventually unite in multinational corporations and conduct joint activities for the production of material goods or the provision of services. In some cases, the formation of multinational organizations occurs under the predominant influence of the culture of the country of their origin, in others, the corporate culture introduced by migration essentially coincides with the national one, and in the third case, cultures are united on the basis of universally recognized, universal values.
Studying a multinational organization makes it possible to compare the influence of the country of origin and the influence of the host country. A multinational firm is necessarily influenced by the country of origin, so a firm founded in the Netherlands and located in America will have very different characteristics than a firm founded in Japan and located in the same America. Firms operating in the united states are more like the Japanese model than the American one, confirming once again that the dominant role in the corporate culture of the organization is played by the country of origin.
An analysis of Japanese companies in the United States showed the following main differences between Japanese and American innovation firms (Table 2).

Table 2. The difference between American and Japanese innovation firms

Japanese managers choose different means to achieve important practical results than their American counterparts. For the Japanese, it is important not only to increase productivity, maximize profits and increase the competitiveness of products, but also to strive for the development of the organization, ensuring its stability, leadership in their industry (which is relatively less attention paid by American managers).
Japanese managers strive more than others for autonomy, creative nature of work, highly appreciate achievements in the field of technology and technical training of the company's staff. Just like South Korean managers, they prefer a prudent, cautious management style, in which is less of dynamic on the surface, but at the same time highly valued personal qualities (such as determination and perseverance).
However, in all firms, whether American or Japanese, that have achieved success and are distinguished by enviable stability in the market, the basic foundation that determines their activities is the culture that permeates the entire system of their life.
As a source of innovation, culture itself changes under the influence of technical, technological and other factors. These factors interact, complementing each other, and national color is also introduced here.
