The peculiarity of the dictionary is that it is based on a summary, but concentrated in knowledge textbook "Innovative management in the public sphere and business". In its essence, the dictionary is a "squeezing" of the basic terms and concepts present in the textbook.
The dictionary reveals the terminology of innovation management, which is focused on breakthrough technologies of development and follows from Russian culture, the economic way of the Russian people. It presents the basic concepts of innovation management in the public sphere and business, revealing the specifics of their interaction and the balance of interests in a multinational Russian society.
Like the textbook, it is written within the framework of the state educational standard, simultaneously developing it in terms of structure and content, and enriching it with spiritual foundations of Orthodox knowledge and mechanisms of its use in an innovatively developing economic system.
The publication of this dictionary is caused by the desire to help the reader to quickly update and correct the available knowledge or, having slightly touched it, to arouse interest in reading the textbook, and then more fundamental works on innovative management in the public sphere and business, enriching the accumulated wealth of knowledge more thoroughly.
In order to facilitate learning, the sequence, logic of presentation of concepts corresponds to the idea of the textbook and its structure. However, it also provides the opportunity to search for the necessary terms in alphabetical order.
For ease of use, the dictionary is available in a small format. It easily fits in the most elegant hand, takes up little space and has an electronic version that extends the possibility of incorporating the knowledge presented in it.
It is intended for students and postgraduates of universities, civil servants, politicians and public figures, as well as for owners and managers of business structures dealing with innovation management.
