Changes taking place in the world are constantly transforming the usual economic patterns and living conditions of people due to the rapid emergence of fundamentally new technologies and industries in various spheres of society. Their influence is so significant that without innovation management in the state sphere and business, it is increasingly difficult to ensure a balance of interests in society.
Individual states, regions, municipalities and the global community are forced to seek answers to questions about what should be modern management philosophy, what should create conditions and mechanisms for the development of innovation management in the state sector and business, to meet the time requirements without destroying value focuses and the habitat of mankind.
The subject of this course is innovation management — the art of managing innovations in the state sphere and business, combining knowledge of the subject area with a broad outlook, philosophy and talent of the individual Manager.
The aim of the course is to train innovative managers of a new generation — highly educated statesmen and businessmen who are strong in spirit and love Russia, have the appropriate natural gift and possess digital management technologies.
An innovation Manager is not only a profession, but also (which is extremely important) a vocation. It is not enough just to learned innovation management. It is necessary that it lay on the fertile ground of ingenuity, innovative mindset, intuition and other natural qualities of the future specialist of this profile. Only such a person can implement an original idea, turning it into an innovative product that has new consumer properties and long-term competitive advantages that bring great profit and high incomes. The success of innovation projects depends on such people.
Innovations in the state sphere and business are primarily engaged in successful large companies and organizations that are able to offer professional managers not only decent payments, but also unlimited opportunities for creativity. Their activity is creative, diverse and specific work with innovation projects, which involves a constant search for new, breakthrough and its implementation in practice.
An innovation Manager is always visible and has more chances to prove himself. A Manager with successful experience in implementing innovative projects in the state sphere and business is extremely in demand in the labor market.
The main objective of the course is to form a system of theoretical knowledge among students and listeners, to instill in them specific skills and abilities of the art of managing innovations in the state sphere and business, using the opportunities of education and practice.
The textbook examines the role of the main spheres of society in shaping the conditions for the development of innovation management, provides systematic knowledge about it, focused on practical application. It reveals the philosophy of innovation management, the features of the entry of business entities into the innovative economy, provides a modern classification of innovations, shows their sources, and studies the innovation potential of the organization. Attention is paid to innovation policy and innovation activities that contribute to the formation of competitive advantages of the organization.
Important objectives of the course are to acquire knowledge about innovations and innovation potential of the organization, innovation policy and innovation activities, innovation managing, organizational forms of innovation management, innovation project, sources and forms of innovation financing, motivation of innovation, innovation culture, innovation management solutions, breakthrough innovation technologies.
The textbook was prepared at the Department of digital enterprise Management in the fuel and energy complex, the lines of industry management Center, the faculty of Economics of the Peoples' Friendship University of Russia. 
The study of this course contributes to the understanding of innovation management as a science of the art of innovations managing, based on the spirituality of the people, which is the "backbone" of decisions made by government, business and society. Qualified, highly spiritual managers are focused on using innovative knowledge for the benefit of the people, based on the interests of the state, business and society, compatible with the laws of conscience.
Innovation knowledge and strategy of interaction of such important subjects of relations as government, business and society should correspond to the achievement of national goals:
- creating a prosperous, stable state that develops and supports culture;
- guaranteed preservation of the way of life of the peoplehood;
- ensuring the spiritual and material conditions of people's life activity.
The state sphere, business, society and the system of their interaction are the most important subjects and objects of innovation management based on artificial intelligence and system of digital technologies.
State, as the main participant, fulfilling its purpose, affects all spheres of society's life activity in order to ensure their balanced development and, interacting with them, uses direct and indirect regulators. The impact is carried out through the functions of the state — the main directions of its activities that determine its role in society.
Business operates in the conditions that the government has created for it, lobbying from time to time its interests that have not been taken into account by the state.
Society is located in the middle between business and government, defending its inherent interests.
At the same time, innovation management is one of the modern tools that are used to implement management technologies to balance the interests of government, business and society in less expensive ways. This is achieved through intelligent products and services, a new quality of management, by turning potential progress in this area of activity into real progress.
We can say that innovation management in the state sphere and business is the science of the art of managing based on the spiritual values of the people and innovative technologies that increase the effectiveness of interaction between government, business and society and the results of their functioning. At the same time, new knowledge, changes, updates and changes, and cultural achievements, including in digital culture, serve as sources of innovation in the state sphere and business.
At the end of each chapter of the textbook, control questions, keywords are given and literature is indicated that allows you to get additional knowledge on the subject being studied.